Update observability doc structure and content (#35816)
ray-project/ray: doc/source/ray-observability/user-guides/cli-sdk.rst

.. _observability-programmatic:

Monitoring with the CLI or SDK
===============================

Monitoring and debugging capabilities in Ray are available through a CLI or SDK.

CLI command ``ray status`` 
----------------------------

> You can monitor node status and resource usage by running (on the head node) a CLI command ``ray status``. It displays

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can monitor node status and resource usage by running the CLI command, ``ray status``, on the head node. It displays
```

- **Node Status**: Nodes that are running and autoscaling up or down. Addresses of running nodes. Information about pending nodes and failed nodes.

> - **Resource Usage**: The Ray resource usage of the cluster. E.g., requested CPUs from all Ray tasks and actors. Number of GPUs that are used.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Resource Usage**: The Ray resource usage of the cluster. For example, requested CPUs from all Ray Tasks and Actors. Number of GPUs that are used.
```

   Demands:
    (no resource demands)

When you need more verbose info about each node, run ``ray status -v``. This is helpful when you need to investigate why particular nodes don't autoscale down.

.. _state-api-overview-ref:

Ray State CLI and SDK
----------------------------

.. tip:: We'd love to hear your feedback on using Ray state APIs - `feedback form <https://forms.gle/gh77mwjEskjhN8G46>`_!

Ray state APIs allow users to conveniently access the current state (snapshot) of Ray through CLI or Python SDK (developer APIs).

.. note::

>     This feature requires a full installation of Ray using ``pip install "ray[default]"``. This feature also requires the dashboard component to be available. The dashboard component needs to be included when starting the Ray cluster, which is the default behavior for ``ray start`` and ``ray.init()``.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    This feature requires a full installation of Ray using ``pip install "ray[default]"``. This feature also requires that the dashboard component is available. The dashboard component needs to be included when starting the Ray Cluster, which is the default behavior for ``ray start`` and ``ray.init()``.
```

.. note::

    State API CLI commands are :ref:`stable <api-stability-stable>`, while python SDKs are :ref:`DeveloperAPI <developer-api-def>`. CLI usage is recommended over Python SDKs.

Get started

> ~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Reviewer: ```suggestion
~~~~~~~~~~~
```

> In this example, you will use the following script that runs 2 tasks and creates 2 actors.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This example uses the following script that runs two Tasks and creates two Actors.
```

                print(line)

Key Concepts
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> Ray state APIs allow you to access **states** of **resources** through **summary**, **list**, and **get** APIs. It also supports **logs** API to access logs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Ray State APIs allow you to access **states** of **resources** through **summary**, **list**, and **get** APIs. It also supports **logs** API to access logs.
```

> - **states**: The state of the cluster of corresponding resources. States consist of immutable metadata (e.g., actor's name) and mutable states (e.g., actor's scheduling state or pid).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **states**: The state of the cluster of corresponding resources. States consist of immutable metadata (e.g., Actor's name) and mutable states (e.g., Actor's scheduling state or pid).
```

- **get**: API to return a single entity of resources in detail.

> - **logs**: API to access the log of actors, tasks, workers, or system log files.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **logs**: API to access the log of actors, tasks, workers, or system log files.
```
```suggestion
- **logs**: API to access the log of Actors, Tasks, Workers, or system log files.
```

User guides
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> Get a summary of the states of all entities of a certain type

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Getting a summary of states of entities by type
```

> ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Reviewer: ```suggestion
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
```

> Return the summarized information of the given Ray entity (objects, actors, tasks).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Return the summarized information of the given Ray entity (Objects, Actors, Tasks).
```

It is recommended to start monitoring states through summary APIs first. When you find anomalies

> (e.g., actors running for a long time, tasks that are not scheduled for a long time),

Reviewer: ```suggestion
(e.g., Actors running for a long time, Tasks that are not scheduled for a long time),
```

            {'cluster': {'summary': {'disabled': {'total_objects': 6, 'total_size_mb': 0.0, 'total_num_workers': 3, 'total_num_nodes': 1, 'task_state_counts': {'SUBMITTED_TO_WORKER': 2, 'FINISHED': 2, 'NIL': 2}, 'ref_type_counts': {'LOCAL_REFERENCE': 2, 'ACTOR_HANDLE': 4}}}, 'total_objects': 6, 'total_size_mb': 0.0, 'callsite_enabled': False, 'summary_by': 'callsite'}}

See :ref:`state CLI refrence<state-api-cli-ref>`` for more details about ``ray summary`` command.

List the states of all entities of certain type

> ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Reviewer: ```suggestion
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
```

> Get a list of resources, possible resources include:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Get a list of resources, possible resources include:
```
```suggestion
Get a list of resources. Possible resources include:
```

            for line in get_log(pid=<PID>, node_ip=<NODE_IP>, follow=True):
                print(line)

See :ref:`state CLI refrence<state-api-cli-ref>`` for more details about ``ray logs`` command.

Failure Semantics
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> The state APIs don't guarantee to return a consistent/complete snapshot of the cluster all the time. By default,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The state APIs don't guarantee to return a consistent/complete snapshot of the cluster all the time. By default,
```
```suggestion
The State APIs don't guarantee to return a consistent or complete snapshot of the cluster all the time. By default,
```

> all Python SDKs raise an exception when there's a missing output from the API. And CLI returns a partial result

Reviewer: ```suggestion
all Python SDKs raise an exception when output is missing from the API. The CLI returns a partial result
```

and provides warning messages. Here are cases where there can be missing output from the API.

**Query Failures**

State APIs query "data sources" (e.g., GCS, raylets, etc.) to obtain and build the snapshot of the cluster.
However, data sources are sometimes unavailable (e.g., the source is down or overloaded). In this case, APIs
will return a partial (incomplete) snapshot of the cluster, and users are informed that the output is incomplete through a warning message.
All warnings are printed through Python's ``warnings`` library, and they can be suppressed.

**Data Truncation**

When the returned number of entities (number of rows) is too large (> 100K), state APIs truncate the output data to ensure system stability

> (when this happens, there's no way to choose truncated data). When truncation happens it will be informed through Python's

Reviewer: ```suggestion
(when this happens, there's no way to choose truncated data). When truncation happens it is informed through Python's
```

``warnings`` module.

**Garbage Collected Resources**

Depending on the lifecycle of the resources, some "finished" resources are not accessible
through the APIs because they are already garbage collected.

.. note::

>     It is recommended not to rely on this API to obtain correct information on finished resources.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Do not to rely on this API to obtain correct information on finished resources.
```

>     For example, Ray periodically garbage collects DEAD state actor data to reduce memory usage.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    For example, Ray periodically garbage collects DEAD state Actor data to reduce memory usage.
```

>     Or it cleans up the FINISHED state of tasks when its lineage goes out of scope.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Or it cleans up the FINISHED state of Tasks when its lineage goes out of scope.
```

API Reference
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

- For the CLI Reference, see :ref:`State CLI Refernece <state-api-cli-ref>`.
- For the SDK Reference, see :ref:`State API Reference <state-api-ref>`.
- For the Log CLI Reference, see :ref:`Log CLI Reference <ray-logs-api-cli-ref>`.

Using Ray CLI tools from outside the cluster
--------------------------------------------------------
These CLI commands have to be run on a node in the Ray Cluster. Examples for
executing these commands from a machine outside the Ray Cluster are provided
below.

.. tab-set::

>     .. tab-item:: If using the VM cluster launcher

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    .. tab-item:: If using the VM cluster launcher
```
```suggestion
    .. tab-item:: VM cluster launcher
```

        Execute a command on the cluster using ``ray exec``:

        .. code-block:: shell

            $ ray exec <cluster config file> "ray status"

>     .. tab-item:: If using Kubernetes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    .. tab-item:: If using Kubernetes
```
```suggestion
    .. tab-item:: Kubernetes
```

        Execute a command on the cluster using ``kubectl exec`` and the configured

>         RayCluster name. We will use the Service targeting the Ray head pod to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        RayCluster name. We will use the Service targeting the Ray head pod to
```
```suggestion
        Ray Cluster name. Ray uses the Service targeting the Ray head pod to
```
